>> Maximiliano Firtman: Well, now it's
time to create the implementation for
this.
And for that,
we will need the connection string, so
I'm going to create a dom.env file.
So in the root folder, I will create
a .env file from environment,
and we're going to create
a DATABASE_URL string.
And I'm going to paste the connection
string of my database
from the same source.
Remember, this is not
actually a Go design pattern.
Go doesn't read .env files, but
we are going to use a library,
very small library,
that will do that for us.
Actually, it's opening the file, parsing
the file, and reading the arguments.
Okay, does it make sense?
We will use this file later also
to add more secret information.
Have in mind that it depends on
where are you deploying this app.
The system might have different
ways to write your env files,
but you will have to also publish
the env file apart from the Go binary.
But remember when we are deploying this,
and at the end of the workshop,
we will see what to deploy.
We are deploying actually the binary,
not the .go files.
Well, you need to deploy the binary,
the public folder, and the .env.
Okay, not the rest of the Go files.
So now we need to read this file, where?
In main.go.
Somewhere, so
let's say this is the Log Initializer,
this is the Movie Handler Initializer.
Now we're going to add here somewhere
the Environmental Variables.
So to do that, we are going to use go,
>> Maximiliano Firtman: If
you remember from go.mod,
we have the godotenv library.
So we're going to use that library,
okay, godotenv.
It's a library that we have already
added as a dependency in our project.
So I'm going to say godotenv.
If I press Enter or Return,
it will automatically add me the import,
the right import, okay, and
we're going to say load.
This return a possible error, so
we're going to follow the pattern
of putting in an if,
creating a variable for it.
Semicolon and
asking if we do have an error.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Something
like this, it's load with capital L.
And if it's an error,
well, I need to log this.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: That we
do have a problem with this,
so we need to say log print F or Fatal.
No .env file was available.
So actually, we don't have the string for
the database,
we don't have other secrets, so
we should stop everything right now.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Okay,
does it makes sense?
So how to connect to the database.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Well, now,
we first need the connection string, so
what we're going to
connect to the database.
We need the connection string.
So dbConnStr or ConnectionString,
however you wanna call this.
So now we are going to
talk with the OS and
call Getenv When you say, why to the OS?
We are using a library for this.
Well, actually, this library is
populating the OS environmental
variables,
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Just for
this execution.
This is to make it more
compatible with the standard Go.
Does it make sense?
os.Getenv will try the environmental
variables of your current
operating system.
In this case,
if we first load a .env file,
that file will replace or
will actually be merged
with the OS environmental
variables from that moment for
our code and only for that code.
So if for some reason it's empty,
we have a problem.
So we also need to make a fatal load
saying, hey, we can't initialize.
So DATABASE_URL not set,
or something like that.
And if that's the case,
now we are ready to open
the database of type postgres
with that connection string.
And that returns database
in a possible error object.
We will check again one more
time if we do have an error.
If it's not nil,
we'll also go into do a fatal error,
like failed to connect to the database.
We could pass also a value,
so instead of Fatal,
I can use Fatalf and
pass as the value, the current error.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Okay,
does it make sense?
And Go is complaining because
I'm not using the database yet.
So something quick that I can
use is I can defer db.Cose, so
closing the database right now.
Remember defer will defer that for
later at the end.
So we remember to close the database
as soon as we are opening it.
So we have the open and we have the close.
But remember, because we do have defer,
it's not closing the database right now.
Okay, so that's something that Go has
to defer the execution to the end.
Well, now we need to make queries somehow.
And for that, we are still missing
one part that is creating the current
implementation of this.
But before doing that, one more step, I
promise you that it will work at the end.
Remember our models,
we have movie, genre, actor.
If we remember our structure,
I'm talking about the sequel structure.
For example, let's talk about the actor.
Remember this ID and FirstName?
This is using title case,
so capital F, capital N.
Why capital F?
Because I wanna make it public,
okay, that's a Go thing.
But now in my database, the actor, it's
actually id, lowercase, and first_name.
Everything lowercase with underscore,
so this is a snake case.
Okay, someone thought that this
looks like a snake for some reason.
This, it's like a snake, whatever.
So we have a problem, I mean,
the Go properties are not
matching the table's field names.
To solve the problem,
we can add metadata to our model, okay?
So to make things easier for you,
under README, we already have that here.
So we can just copy and paste the new
model, so replace the models.
So is something like that.
So this is the type
movie where we specify.
Okay, you know what?
Here, even if it says json, okay,
it's for the database anyway,
because the database provider will use
that metadata, the JSON metadata, okay?
So I just need to replace my
current movie with this one.
What's the only difference?
Is that now it has metadata with
the real field names in the database.
That will also be the name here
when we convert this to JSON.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Okay, makes sense?
So that's the movie.
I need to do the same for
the other two as well,
which is actually pretty simple.
So for example, if you copy one on actor,
this is json: id,
we introduce it manually,
first_name, last_name, image_url.
Every time you save, in this case,
VS Code is pretty fine, your tabs.
In genre, we have id and name.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Okay, so
they should match the field
names in the database.
So we have actor, genre, and
movie now with the right metadata.